blood_intro2	By drawing on previous contracts made with infernal powers
blood_intro2	Drawing on the essence of his own magically enriched blood

blood_intro	By offering blood to a dark power
blood_intro	Through sacrificing blood to hellish forces



burning_info	Burning creatures suffer a closed d(size) points of true damage each round, with no rolls or resistances applied. The chance of stopping burning each round is (fire res * 2) + ((cold scale + 5) * 5), to a minimum of 1%, where fire vulnerabilities are treated as negative resistance and heat scales are treated as negative cold scales. If it is raining, or the burning creature would not be set on fire according to the above criteria, add 100 to the chance of the fire extinguishing.
earthgrip_info	Earth gripped creatures become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move, or repel. They also suffer -75% defence skill. Once a round, they make a check to escape. Units with the blink movement ability always succeed. Others must produce a result of 23 or higher on a roll of Strength + DRN.
confusion_info	Confused creatures have a 30% chance to stand and do nothing for 10000 ticks (133% of a round). If they pass this check, there is a further 20% chance that they direct their attacks into a random adjacent square, including into friendlies.
stun_info	Stunned creatures become immobilised for 6500-8500 ticks (86-113% of a round), becoming unable to attack, move or repel. They also suffer -75% defence skill.
petrify_info	Petrification: affected creatures are petrified for 22500-45000 ticks (3-6 rounds). Stone beings are immune to petrification. Petrified creatures become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move or repel. They also have 0 defence skill, but gain slash and pierce resistance, and have their natural protection raised to 20 if it was lower. If a creature remains petrified after battle, the effect ends. If the petrification ends during the battle, the victim must make a MR check at +2 penetration or take 999 AN magical damage. This MR check is not attributed to the caster, and does not respect their penetration bonuses, nor does it affect their kill count.
paralysis_info	Paralysed units become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move or repel. Their attack and defence skills are also set to 0."
entangle_info	Entangled creatures become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move, or repel. They also suffer -75% defence skill. Once a round, they make a check to escape. Units with the blink movement ability always succeed. Others roll Strength + DRN. In order to break free they must roll at least (19 + Growth + Terrain modifier), where death counts as negative growth, and the terrain modifier is +1 in forests and kelp forests, or -1 in wastelands.
sleep_info	Sleeping creatures become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move, or repel. Their defence skill is set to 0. They awaken upon being damaged by a non-poison effect. Every 2550 ticks (about three times a round), there is a 5% chance that sleeping units will awaken on their own.
bleed_info	Ethereal creatures always recover from profuse bleeding on their first check without suffering any adverse effects. Once per round, other units gain 10 fatigue suffer (20 + max hp)/20 true damage, without any protection or DRN rolls. Once these effects are applied, victims then roll to stop bleeding: the chance for it to end is (10 + regen percentage)%, halved if underwater.
disease_info	Diseased creatures that are neither undead nor inanimate suffer from disease. Disease resistance offers its value as a percentage chance to skip the effects of disease every turn. Non-regenerating creatures suffer (closed d10 - 1 + max hp)/10 damage per turn, rounded down, and have a base affliction chance of 15%. Regenerating creatures suffer no damage and have a base affliction chance of 10%. Holding a cursed item increases affliction chance by a flat +50%. If an affliction is rolled, there is the same chance again that it is a major affliction, otherwise a minor affliction is added.
curse_info	Whenever a cursed unit takes damage, there is a flat +15% chance that it gains an affliction. This is added before the effects of affliction resistance and regeneration on affliction chances.
slime_info	Slime: Doubles attack or trample intervals. Decreases attack skill by 2, and halves combat speed. Decreases defence skill by 2, unless the victim is quickened and also not suffering from slow. Every round, slimed creatures roll MR + DRN. A result of 22 or higher ends the effect.
rust_info	Rusty armour has a (incoming damage roll * 2)% chance of becoming damaged. Rusty weapons have a 25% chance to break when they land a hit, reducing their damage done by 2. Blunt weapons only have their damage reduced by 1.
web_info	Webbed creatures become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move, or repel. They also suffer -75% defence skill. Once a round, they make a check to escape. Units with the blink movement ability always succeed. Others roll Strength + DRN. In order to break free they must roll 23 or higher.
falsefetters_info	Creatures trapped in false fetters become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move, or repel. They also suffer -75% defence skill. Once a round, they make a check to escape. In order to break free they must roll MR + DRN of at least 21.
numbness_info	Frozen targets suffer -3 to attack and defence skill, have halved combat speed and attack rate, and take 2d6 fatigue damage per round. Thawing chance per round is 25% - (cold resistance + (6*cold scale)), to a minimum thawing chance of 25%. Having 5 or more cold resistance, a cold aura from Breath of Winter, being undead, having mistform, having a fire shield from the spell, or being ethereal prevents the effect. Fulfilling any of these criteria whilst already frozen results in guaranteed thawing without suffering the fatigue.
slow_info	Slow: Doubles attack or trample intervals. Halves combat speed. Decreases defence skill by 2, unless the victim is quickened and also not suffering from slime.
curseofstones_info	Curse of Stones: Combat speed reduced by -25%, causes closed d4 fatigue per square moved, encumbrance increased by 3. Flying creatures gain a closed 2d6 fatigue every time they fly.
desiccation_info	Each round, desiccated creatures suffer an openended 2d8 true fatigue damage. They then roll MR + DRN, a result of 23 or higher ends the effect. Those with 0 encumbrance are unaffected.
decay_info	Decay ages units by 5 years per combat round, affected by any modifiers such as quickness or an unaging bless. Additionally, creatures take damage equal to (old age penalty * 5 + d10 - 1 + number of years aged in the first step)/10, rounded down. There is a 1% that creatures are allowed a difficult MR check to end the effect. This ignores both parties' path levels and the caster's penetration bonus, if any. Creatures that are old may suffer additional damage upon being aged.
bondsoffire_info	Fire bonded creatures become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move, or repel. They also suffer -75% defence skill. Once a round, they make a check to escape. They must produce a result of 21 or higher on a roll of Morale + DRN. Upon doing so, they suffer 3 AN fire damage.
rage_info	Rage: There is a 50% chance that enraged creatures direct attacks to any adjacent square, picked at random.
confusion_info	Confused creatures have a 30% chance to stand and do nothing for 10000 ticks (133% of a round). If they pass this check, there is a further 20% chance that they direct their attacks into a random adjacent square, including into friendlies.
cursedluck_info	Cursed luck prevents luck from working, and gives a 50% chance to subtract an openended 1d6 from their protection and defence rolls. Defence rolls are only affected in the context of melee to-hit rolls and not in repelling, or spells which check defence.


regen_info	Grants 10% non-limited regeneration, working even on inanimates. Regenerating creatures heal (max hp * regeneration percentage + 99)/100 rounded down per turn. Regeneration also improves the bleeding recovery rate, and reduces the chance of gaining afflictions when damaged by (500/regeneration percentage) percent.
quickness_info	Quickness: Increases attack skill by 2, and doubles combat speed. Halves the interval between successive melee attacks or trample attempts. If neither slow nor slime are suffered, increases defence skill by 2.
chargebody20_info	The next time the recipient is struck in melee, the attacker takes 20 AN shock damage. If they survive, the caster also takes 20 AN shock damage.
luck_info	Luck: Grants a 75% chance to negate fatal damage, except against true damage or sources of 900+ damage. Negated by cursed luck. Inanimate and undead creatures do not benefit from luck.
mirrorimage_info	Mirror Image: The chance of hitting a recipient is (100/(Air level * 2 + 1))%, rounded down, to a minimum hit chance of 50% with no Air levels. Hitting false images does not remove them. This effect ends when the recipient takes damage, and the damage is not prevented by effects further along the damage sequence. This does not protect against effects that do not affect mindless foes, all spells, weapons with an area of effect greater than one person, true damage, internal damage, or effects which inflict 900+ damage. The Air level of each recipient (rather than the caster's) determines their number of images.
twistfate_info	Twist fate: Negates the next instance of damage. Will not apply to hits of 1 damage unless the caster has only 1 or 2 hit points. Effects that inflict 900+ or true damage are not affected.
mistform_info	Mistform: Any damage is reduced to 1 (max 25 points of reduction). A hit that would have dealt 25+ in damage, or a hit from any magical source, cancels the mistform after the damage reduction. There is also a 1% chance that the enchantment will expire whenever protecting against an attack. This spell does not protect against true damage, internal damage, or effects which inflict 900+ damage.
mossbody_info	Mossbody: Grants a 75% chance to reduce incoming damage by 15 after protection rolls and physical resistances. If this fails to reduce damage to zero, the effect ends and an aoe 4 poison burst is released that inflicts 1 AN poison damage. Internal damage, true damage, and effects that inflict 900+ damage bypass mossbody entirely: their damage is not reduced but mossbody cannot be destroyed by them.
ethereal_info	Etherealness allows movement through castle walls. Nonmagical damage has a 75% chance to be negated.
soulvortex_info	The caster gains an aura of value 8: this hits one of the 9 squares in a 3x3 box around the caster approximately eight times a round. The same square can be hit multiple times. All those except inanimate beings in affected squares must make a magic resistance check, or the caster inflicts 1 AN life draining on them. The caster makes magic resistance checks against their own aura, but cannot be harmed by it. This is considered a Death effect for the purposes of the victims' magic resistance checks, but the caster's path levels and penetration bonuses are ignored.
protforce_info	Grants protective force 20, giving a 50% chance to gain +20 protection after protection rolls and physical resistances. AP and AN attacks respect that this is protection and bypass half or all of it, respectively. Does not protect against true damage, internal damage, or effects which inflict 900+ damage.
limitedregen_info	Grants 10% limited regeneration. Regenerating creatures heal (max hp * regeneration percentage + 99)/100 rounded down per turn. Regeneration also improves the bleeding recovery rate, and reduces the chance of gaining afflictions when damaged by (500/regeneration percentage) percent. This does not stack with other spell sources of 10% limited regeneration.
flamingarrows_info	Flaming arrows: Ranged attacks take 8 AP fire damage. This occurs even if the hit was negated by etherealness or similar effects. The fire damage also bypasses Mirror Image. Does not apply to intrinsic weapons, natural ranged weapons, or ice weapons.
astralshield_info	Astral Shield: Non-mindless melee attackers suffer 12 + Astral level paralysis damage. If they fail a magic resistance check (which is an Astral effect that does not respect the caster's additional path levels or penetration bonus), they become paralysed for (paralysis damage + DRN - DRN - target's size)/2 rounds. This effect is checked after a melee attack connects, and as such becoming paralyzed due to this spell does not cause the attack to fail. Only Astral levels of the unit being struck add to the paralysis damage: if applied to units without astral paths (such as through a communion), they are considered to have an astral level of 0. Paralysed units become immobilised, becoming unable to attack, move or repel. Their attack and defence skills are also set to 0.



lifedrain_info	Heals the caster for half the damage inflicted, rounded down, to a maximum of (caster's max hitpoints * 3)/2 + 10, rounded down. Recovers 2 fatigue per damage inflicted.



fire	flame
fire	fire

ball	sphere
ball	orb
ball	glob
ball	ball

underground	underground
underground	beneath
underground	below
underground	the depths

mist	mist
mist	vapor
mist	fog
mist	cloud
mist	haze

shield	shield
shield	ward
shield	fend

illusory	false
illusory	illusory
illusory	phantasmal

fetters	fetters
fetters	shackles
fetters	manacles
fetters	bonds
fetters	chains

marble	marble
marble	stone
marble	rock
marble	granite

iron	steel
iron	iron

purifying	purifying
purifying	cleansing

syllable	syllable
syllable	word
syllable	utterance

additional	additional
additional	extra