#neweffect "Vengeance of the Dead"
#copyspell "Vengeance of the Dead"
#effect 10053
#damage 999
#spec 9048064
#power 4
#maxpower 4
#nreff 1
#pathlevel 4
#fatiguecost 300
#schools 32

#paths 48
#secondarypaths 48
#secondarypathchance 90

#name 16 "Vengeance of the Dead"
#name 32 "Vengeance of the Dead"
#descr 16 "The mage will contact the dead souls of all the people or creatures that the target has slain. These dead souls will then be guided to the dreams of the target, where they can attack him in a horrible nightmare. The mage will ensure that the target is pulled strongly into the nightmare, so that he stays dead if the dead souls are successful in killing him. This spell does not work on mindless or undead beings and the target must have slain units in combat for the spell to work. One province is chosen for the spell and the greatest butcher of all enemy commanders in that province will be targeted for the nightmare."
#descr 32 "The mage will contact the dead souls of all the people or creatures that the target has slain. These dead souls will then be guided to the dreams of the target, where they can attack him in a horrible nightmare. The mage will ensure that the target is pulled strongly into the nightmare, so that he stays dead if the dead souls are successful in killing him. This spell does not work on mindless or undead beings and the target must have slain units in combat for the spell to work. One province is chosen for the spell and the greatest butcher of all enemy commanders in that province will be targeted for the nightmare."
#details "Selects the enemy commander with the highest kill count in the targeted province. Sneaking commanders are valid targets for this spell. Mindless, undead, or feebleminded commanders are not valid targets for this spell. The victim must make a MR check, respecting the caster's penetration bonuses, but the victim's relevant path level does not give them additional resistance. If the victim fails to resist, they enter an assassination battle with a number of ethereal Dead Ones equal to their kills stat. This spell is entirely anonymous."

#spelltype 4
#end